---
permalink: /
title: "👋🏼 Hello there, I'm Jonas"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

👨🏻‍💻 I am a third-year PhD student in Economics at the University of Cologne. In the fall of 2025, I visited Boston University, hosted by Daniele Paserman.

🔬 My research exploits natural experiments in sports settings to study decision-making, discrimination, and productivity in the workplace. 

📊 I am also interested in the intangible effects of professional sports on local economies. Specifically, I aim to understand the market idiosyncrasies through which sports facilities and teams act as urban amenities.

🧠 I am affiliated with the Center for Social and Economic Behavior ([C-SEB](https://c-seb.de/en/)) at the University of Cologne.

# Current Projects
## Working Papers
1. **The Relocation Effect of a Major League Franchise on Residential Property Values**
   Quantifying the intangible (dis)benefits generated by the departure of the NFL’s Rams franchise from St. Louis. (Reject and Resubmit at RSUE); [Read More](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=5009321)
2. **Showing Visibility When it Matters: Career Concerns in Contingent Employment Arrangements**  (with Oliver Gürtler & Felix Sage)[available upon request]
3. **Religious Fasting and Elite Performance** (with Chengyuan Hua & Galila Nasser)

## Work in Progress
1. Racial Bias in Newspaper Ratings of Professional Soccer Players - Revisited

## Collaborations
I’m always excited to chat about new ideas. If you’re interested in collaborating or just want to exchange thoughts, don’t hesitate to get in touch!

# 📚 Teaching
I have been teaching a hands-on project course for undergraduate Economics students called **Reproduction Workshop Sports Economics** for the past two years. In this course, we dive into the world of sports economics and learn how to conduct empirical research by reproducing selected papers using R. It’s a great way for students to engage with the material and develop practical skills!

# 🌍 Upcoming Travels
I will present my research at the 3rd Workshop on Sports, Economics, and Natural Experiments in Stirling (June) as well as at the 17th ESEA conference on Sports Economics in Zürich (August).
